1. Investment in an individual security always has an associated risk, which can be minimized through diversification, a process involving investment in a portfolio consisting of several securities. In accordance with this notion, Markowitz introduced the mean-variance model for optimal allocation of weights to the securities comprising the portfolio. Mean and covariance matrix of returns of securities are used as the measures for giving a quantitative sense to the return and the risk, respectively, of the portfolio. Despite the theoretical simplicity of the approach of Markowitz model based on risk-return trade-off, there are several drawbacks associated with incorporating it in a practical setup.  (Source : 1st paragraph of Report)

2. The performance of optimal portfolio constructed using Markowitz optimization is extremely sensitive towards the errors in estimation of input parameters involving means, variances and covariances of asset returns. (Source: BTP Presentation)

3. Under the hypothesis of normality the sample estimates of means and covariances are maximum likelihood estimates (MLE). DeMiguel and Nogales (2009) argue, if those estimates are the most efficient ones, where does the estimation error come from? The answer is that the performance of MLE based on normality assumptions is highly sensitive to deviations of the empirical or sample distribution from the assumed normal distribution. Taking into account that stock returns usually violate the normality assumption, we should expect the estimation error to affect the performance of optimization techniques that rely on sample estimates. (Source: Santos paper)

4. Historical data of returns is usually taken into account in order to calculate the sample mean and the sample variance. The historical data neglects various other market factors and is not an accurate representation for estimates of future returns. Taking into account the above reasons, Michaud [22] argued that the mean-variance analysis tends to maximize the impact of estimation errors associated with the return and the risk parameters for the securities. As a result, Markowitz portfolio optimization often overweighs (underweighs) the securities having higher (lower) expected return, lower (higher) variance of returns and negative (positive) correlation between their returns. Labelling the model as “estimation-error maximizers”, he stated that it often leads to financially counter-intuitive portfolios, which, in some cases, perform worse than the equal-weighted portfolio. (Source: 3rd paragraph of Report).

5. Best and Grauer studied the sensitivity of weights of optimal portfolios with respect to changes in estimated means of returns on individual securities. On imposition of no short selling constraint on the securities, they observed that a small change in estimated mean return of an individual security can assign zero weights to almost half the securities comprising the portfolio, thus, leading to a large adjustment in portfolio weights.  (Source: 3rd paragraph of Report and Kim's paper).

6. Chopra and Ziemba performed the sensitivity analysis of performance of optimal portfolios by studying the relative effect of estimation errors in means, variances and covariances of security returns, taking the investors’ risk tolerance into consideration as well. They observed that at a high risk tolerance of around fifty, cash equivalent loss for estimation errors in means is about eleven times greater than that for errors in variances or covariances. Accordingly, they pointed out that if the investors have superior estimates for means of security returns, they should prefer using them over the sample means calculated from historical data. (Source: 3rd paragraph of Report).

7. Broadie investigated the error maximization property of mean-variance analysis. Accordingly, he conducted a simulation based study to compare the estimated efficient frontier with the actual frontier computed using true parameter values. He observed that points on the estimated efficient frontier show superior performance as compared to the corresponding points on the actual frontier. He supported his argument of over-estimation of expected returns of optimal portfolios through his simulated results of obtaining the estimated frontier lying above the actual frontier. Additionally, he pointed out that non-stationarity in the data of returns can further increase the errors in computing the efficient frontier. (Source: 3rd paragraph of Report).

8. Robust Optimization : Class of methods proposed to enhance the robustness of Markowitz portfolios by optimizing the portfolio performance in worst-case scenarios. Most of the robust models deal with optimizing a given objective function with a predefined “uncertainty set” for obtaining computationally tractable solutions. According to Tütüncü and Köenig (2004) robust optimization is an emerging branch in the field of optimization that consists in finding solutions to optimization problems with uncertain input parameters. In the approach proposed by Tütüncü and Köenig(2004), uncertainty is described using an uncertainty set which includes all, or most, possible realizations of the uncertain input parameters. This yields a worst-case optimization, in the sense that for each choice of the decision variable (in this case the portfolio weights) it is considered the worst case realization of the data and evaluated the corresponding objective value, finally picking the set of values for the variables with best worst-case objective. (Source: BTP presentation and Santos paper).

9. Ceria and Stubbs [11] introduced a methodology for robust portfolio optimization, taking into account the estimation errors in input parameters while formulat- ing the optimization problem. The approach involves minimizing the worst case return for a given confidence region. They observed that the constructed robust portfolios perform superior in comparison to those constructed using mean-variance analysis in most of the cases but not in each month with certainty. Utilizing the above framework, Scherer [24] showed that robust methods do not lead to significant change in the efficient set. Constructing an example, he showed that robust portfolio underperforms out of the sample in comparison to Markowitz portfolio, especially in the case of low risk aversion and high uncertainty aversion. He also argued that performance of robust portfolio is dependent upon the consistency between uncertainty aversion and risk aversion which is quite complicated. (Source: 5th paragraph of Report,not mentioned in Kim paper).

10. Aim of paper or important takeways. In contrast to the results reported by Scherer (used simulated data), we observe that robust optimization with ellipsoidal uncertainty set the case of simulated data as well as market data. This could be attributed to incorporation of no short-selling constraints in the optimization problem. Better performance of robust formulation having separable previous study on the same robust model by Tütüncü and Koenig. (Source: BTP Presentation)

11. Organisation of paper into sections.
